# rbenv-gemset

rbenv-gemset is an extension for the [rbenv][rbenv] ruby version manager that
allows you to use "gemsets", sandboxed collections of gems. This lets you have
multiple collections of gems installed in different sandboxes, and specify (on
a per-application basis) which sets of gems should be used.

## Installation

### Homebrew

The easiest way to install (if you are on Mac OSX) is via the [Homebrew][homebrew] package manager:

    $ brew update
    $ brew install rbenv-gemset

### GitHub

Otherwise, clone rbenv-gemset to the `$HOME/.rbenv/plugins` directory:

    $ mkdir -p ~/.rbenv/plugins
    $ cd ~/.rbenv/plugins
    $ git clone git://github.com/jamis/rbenv-gemset.git

## Usage

In your application directory, create a file named `.rbenv-gemsets` and put the
names of the gemsets you want to use in it, separated by whitespace. The first
gemset in the list will be the primary gemset, where new gems will be
installed.

    $ rbenv gemset active "my-gemset 2nd-gemset"

Now, all commands involving gems will use the gemsets you specified.

The gemset plugin causes rbenv to search for the first `.rbenv-gemsets` file 
starting at the current directory and working back up the ancestor directories
to determine what gemsets are active.
If no `.rbenv-gemsets` file is found then the default environment for that
version is used.

This plugin also adds the following sub commands to rbenv:

* `rbenv gemset` - lists available commands
* `rbenv gemset active [ <gemset> ]` - Set or show active gemsets
* `rbenv gemset create <version> <gemset>` - Create the specified gemset under the specified rbenv version
* `rbenv gemset delete <version> <gemset>` - Delete  the specified gemset under the specified rbenv version
* `rbenv gemset file` - Display the path of the active .rbenv-gemsets
* `rbenv gemset list` - Show all available gemsets 
* `rbenv gemset version` - Show the rbenv-gemset version 

For full documentation, see: https://github.com/jamis/rbenv-gemset#readme

## Special gemsets

The "global" gemset is always appended to the end of the list of gemsets 
and is typically used for gems that are common across all projects.
Note: this is a different location than the default.

The "default" gemset will include the path/s that would be used if no `.rbenv-gemsets` file had been found.
Note the default gem path for system may include multiple directories.

## Environment

The following environment variables are used by this plugin:

* RBENV\_GEMSET\_SYSTEM\_ROOT - Directory that system gemsets are held in. You may override the default location (/usr/local/share/ruby-gemsets)

The following environment variables are set by the plugin 

* GEM\_HOME - Set to the path for the first gemset if a `.rbenv-gemsets` file was found
* GEM\_PATH - Set to the list of gemset paths if a `.rbenv-gemsets` file was found
* RBENV\_GEMSETS - Lists the active gemsets (blank otherwise)

You can use the `rbenv gem home` command to see the gem environment variables.

Automcomplete is provided for bash shell (use [Tab] to show available versions / gemsets).

## License

This code is placed in the public domain by the author, Jamis Buck. Use it as
you wish. Please prefer good over evil.

[rbenv]: http://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv
[homebrew]: http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/
